So what do I mean by fallbacks.
Fallbacks have multiple interpretations.
Here we have a gallery of
values cut pictures and
we have a little bit of code
here that uses custom properties
to apply transforms individually,
namely scale and rotate transforms.
So we want to apply subtle rotations
to some of these pictures.
So let's do save and child odd to apply
a rotation to every other picture.
And now you see this
is not working.
I'm not surprised that it's not working,
this is the whole point.
I'm going to explain why it's not working.
But at this point we might have
been quite puzzled by this, but
let's continue writing
the code as we intended.
So we also wanted to apply a different
rotation on every third image.
So let's do something like this,
still not working.
And we wanted to also scale
images when they are hoovered.
So we're gonna add a hover style
as well that scales them by 20%.
And notice what's happening here.
The transforms are either
applied together or not at all.
Either we get no rotation or
we get both rotation and scale.
And why is that?
This is because here where we're using
our scale and rotate custom properties,
the browser doesn't know what value
to apply when they are not both set.
So, this style only works when we set
both of them, which is not very useful.
The whole point is that we can use
custom properties to independently
set parts of style.
However, the bar function provides a
second argument that we can use to provide
such fallbacks.
So we would provide the fallback
of one for the scale transform so
that no scale happens if we
haven't set this property.
And zero degrees for
the rotate transport and
now it's suddenly all works, now we get
the the rotations that we wanted and
we also get the entirely
independent scale that we wanted.
You might be thinking,
why don't I just do this?
Why don't I just go here and
set scale and rotate here?
And then they always have a value.
As you'll see, this also works.
You could do that.
It's not as good because the problem
in that case is that anyone else,
who wants to style this gallery, and
wants to override these properties,
needs to use a selector of at least the
same specificity as the one you've used.
Whereas with fallbacks, any code that
sets these properties no matter how,
even if they're inherited,
or if they're set through a very low
specificity selector, it just works.
And lastly, another alternative to making
our code work is to just register these
properties, we could use @property.
Let's register a scale for example.
And we can say the syntax is a number.
It does not inherit.
It wouldn't make sense to make it inherit.
And its initial value is 1.
And now we don't actually
need to provide the fallback.
And that is actually a far superior method
because it means that if you're using
the custom property multiple times,
you don't need to repeat the fallback
every time or assign it to a variable or
anything like that.
So this is strictly superior but
since it's not yet supported everywhere,
we need the other workarounds as well.
And note that you can't do both.
Once you register the property
the fallback never applies.
In any case that the fallback would apply,
you just get the initial value
that you have already declared.
So how do these fallbacks actually work?
People sort of intuitively understand that
when the variable doesn't have a value,
they get the fallback.
But that is a little bit hand-wavy,
what does it mean that
the variable doesn't have a value?
Let's look at a few examples.
So what happens given that we have this
code, it sets the background to red, and
then it sets the background to whatever
X and code is with a fallback of orange.
What happens if accent color is set
to an actual color that is supported,
like yellowgreen?
What would you expect to happen?
It's not a trick question.
You will get yellowgreen.
I mean that's the whole point.
What happens when no accent
color variable is set anywhere?
You would get orange.
That's the whole point.
What happens if accent color is set but
it's set to the initial keyword?
So the initial keyword returns
the variable to its initial value,
which is exactly the same
value as when it's not set.
So you would still get the fallback,
you would still get orange.
And that is actually,
as we'll see later on,
this is actually a way to
explicitly request the fallback.
In some cases we want to do that,
we want to trigger the fallback, so
we set the variable to initial to do that.
And what happens if the browser
doesn't support CSS variables at all.
Which these days is
basically just IE 11 So
many people think, that you would
get the fallback in that case.
Many people think that,
that's the point of using a fallback, but
that actually doesn't make sense.
How can a browser that doesn't understand
CSS variables understand the var function?
A browser that does not
support CSS variables,
doesn't understand the second line at all.
So you would get red.
So to sum up, the var fallback is
applied when there is no value or
when the variable results to initial.
And these are not even the only cases.
Later on we'll see some other cases
that trigger the fallback, but
these are the main cases.
And that the var fallback has no help
in browsers that don't support CSS
variables at all, which like we've
said is on the IE 11 really.
So this is the browser support
right now for CSS variables.
I can open it and kind of use if you
wanna get more detailed information.
It's basically 95% of visitors.
So I imagine for most of you CSS variables
are fine to use unless you're working
on enterprise, and you still have to
support IE 11 at least in a basic way.
So what can you do in that case?
Well, there's always @supports,
do note that IE 11 doesn't
support @support either.
So you would only need to use
@support to progressively enhance and
to use CSS variables
inside the @supports rule.
There is also the knot version of
@supports where you can apply what's
inside only when the browser doesn't
support something we do not want that.
Cuz that only applies your code at
the intersection of browsers that don't
support the feature and also support
@supports, so that's no use here.
But for CSS variables this works fine,
you can use any custom property and
any value inside here,
it could really be anything,
like whatever, yolo, anything works fine.
Do note that in most cases,
you don't actually need to do this.
This is for rather elaborate
fallbacks where you don't only
need to provide an alternative
value of the same property,
but you also need to style
other properties differently.
In this case for example where we just
wanna set a different background,
We can just use an actual variable.
So, to sum up you can use @supports
to provide more elaborate fallback
styling and do not use negative queries,
not for this at least.
And this is currently the browser
support for @supports.
As you can see it's basically
supported everywhere except I11.
So a question that some
of you might have is,
can we use @support to
detect @property support?
Let's try to do that.
Let's take a pause and
think how would you try to use
@supports to detect @property support.
So my first thought was
that I could use and
@property rule to the define something,
let's say p or
foo whatever number and
I would give it a syntax of number.
And in here its value of,
it doesn't really matter.
And an initial value just
because it's required.
And then I would go here and
say, supports,
like something, css, variables.
I tend to use this query for
variables in general.
So we wanna apply this to
a browser that supports CSS
variables in general and
doesn't @property.
So you would say something like and
not, And
I would use my registered number,
custom property and
set it to something that
is not a number like foo.
And if this turned out to be unsupported,
then this means that
the registration worked.
But notice that this is not applying,
my background is now red,
because the browser
supports this just fine.
The browser will accept any value for
any custom property,
whether it's registered or not.
This is because @supports actually checks
syntax that is valid on parse time and
any syntax goes at parse time.
The syntax of a registered property is
check that computed value time not when
the browser is actually reading CSS code.
We'll get into the nitty gritty of
what parse time versus computer time
means a little bit later.
But what I want you to remember
now is that we can't actually use
@supports to detect @property support.
In fact, I have not found any CSS
based way to detect @property, but
detecting it with
JavaScript is fairly easy.
You would just check if there is this
global variable called CSS property rule
that's the interface that @property
rules correspond to in the CSS om.
And you could check if that object exists,
you would just add a class
to the root element.
And then you can use the sentence
selectors with @class to vary your
CSS depending on whether
@property is supported or not,
which given its browser support right now,
it's still very important.
If we use @property,
we do want to specify fallbacks as well.
Unless it's for
something that is very superficial
decoration we're fine if it doesn't exist.
But in most cases we do
want to provide fallbacks.
Another point that confuses people when
it comes to these fallbacks is this.
So, take a look at this code for a bit.
Is this specifying multiple fallbacks and
what does that mean?
So actually, anything after
the comma is part of the fallback.
So this will just give us a yellowgreen.
When the fallback is applied,
it's equivalent to just having
a background of none, yellowgreen,
which is just two background
layers one without a background image and
one with yellowgreen.